>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JANUARY 10: THE
LATEST ON THE INVESTIGATION INTO
THIS WEEK'S TERROR ATTACKS IN
FRANCE; WHAT THOSE ATTACKS MEAN
FOR FRANCE'S NEARLY 500,000
JEWS, EUROPE'S LARGEST JEWISH
COMMUNITY; AND THE FORMER DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE C.I.A. WEIGHS IN
ON THE TERROR THREAT FROM
ABROAD.
>> TERRORISTS NOW HAVE THE
LARGEST SAFE HAVEN THAT THEY'VE
HAD IN OVER A DECADE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS OF
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FRANCE'S PRIME MINISTER TODAY
DECLARED WAR ON RADICAL ISLAM
FOLLOWING TWO TERROR ATTACKS
THAT LEFT 17 PEOPLE AND THREE
TERRORISTS DEAD.
AUTHORITIES NOW BELIEVE A 26-
YEAR-OLD WOMAN WANTED IN
CONNECTION WITH ONE OF THE TWO
ATTACKS LEFT THE COUNTRY DAYS
EARLIER AND MIGHT NOW BE IN
TURKEY OR SYRIA.
HAYAT BOUMEDIENE HAD BEEN SOUGHT
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FATAL
SHOOTING OF A POLICEWOMAN AND
THE CAPTURE AND SHOOTING OF
HOSTAGES AT A KOSHER STORE IN
THE FRENCH CAPITAL.
HER BOYFRIEND, AMEDY COULIBALY,
WAS KILLED BY FRENCH POLICE WHO
STORMED THE STORE LAST NIGHT.
MEANWHILE, IN A SMALL TOWN NORTH
OF PARIS, RESIDENTS WERE
CELEBRATING THE KILLING OF THE
TWO TERRORISTS WHO SHOT UP THE
OFFICES OF CHARLIE HEBDO, A
SATIRICAL MAGAZINE, AND LATER
FLED TO DAMMARTIN EN GOELE,
WHERE THIS SIEGE ENDED
YESTERDAY.
I.T.N.'S JONATHAN RUGMAN IS
THERE.
>> Reporter: IN DAMMARTIN EN
GOEL'S MAIN STREET, NO SIGN OF
THE TRAUMA WHICH GRIPPED THIS
TOWN YESTERDAY.
THE TWO BROTHERS WHO TERRORIZED
FRANCE AND KILLED 12 PEOPLE ARE
NOW DEAD.
FRENCH POLICE FILMED THEIR OWN
ACCOUNT OF THE FIERCE GUN BATTLE
WHICH ENDED THIS SIEGE.
THE BROTHERS, CORNERED IN A
PRINT COMPANY ON THE TOWN'S
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE.
ONE MAN WAS HIDING BENEATH A
SINK UPSTAIRS AND SECRETLY
TEXTING THE POLICE MESSAGES.
THIS PHOTO SHOWS HIM, A GRAPHIC
DESIGNER, BEING LED TO SAFETY.
THIS AFTERNOON, WE SPOKE TO
MICHEL CATALANO, THE OWNER OF
THE BUSINESS WHO LET THE GUNMEN
IN, AND HIS ACCOUNT WAS NOT WHAT
YOU MIGHT EXPECT.
HE SAID THE BROTHERS WERE ALWAYS
POLITE AND NEVER AGGRESSIVE,
THAT THEY TOLD HIM THAT THEY
WOULD NOT HURT HIM, THAT HE
OFFERED TO MAKE THEM A CUP OF
COFFEE, AND THAT THEY TOLD HIM
TO CALL IN THE POLICE.
STILL UNDER POLICE GUARD, MR.
CATALANO APPEARED BRIEFLY
OUTSIDE HIS HOME.
THE BROTHERS LET HIM GO BEFORE
THE BATTLE STARTED, BUT HE WAS
STILL STRUGGLING WITH THE
ENORMITY OF HOSTING FRANCE'S
MOST DANGEROUS MEN.
>> (translated): I SAW A
KALASHNIKOV AND A ROCKET
LAUNCHER, AND I UNDERSTOOD
EVERYTHING IMMEDIATELY, AND I
THOUGHT I WAS IN A FILM.
>> Reporter: IT'S NOW BELIEVED
THAT BOTH CHERIF AND SAIF
KOUACHI HAD TRAVELED TO YEMEN.
AND BEFORE THEY WERE KILLED, ONE
OF THEM TOLD FRENCH TELEVISION
THAT HE WAS PART OF AL QAEDA
THERE.
SO, THE JOURNEY FROM THESE
FIGHTERS IN THE YEMENI MOUNTAINS
TO A SMALL COMMUTER TOWN NEAR
PARIS SEEMS TO BE CHILLINGLY
SHORTER THAN ANYONE HERE DARED
THINK.
JONATHAN RUGMAN, CHANNEL 4 NEWS,
DAMMARTIN EN GOEL.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SIEGE AT THE
KOSHER SUPERMARKET IN PARIS
ENDED WHEN HEAVILY ARMED POLICE
STORMED THE BUILDING LAST NIGHT
AND KILLED THE HOSTAGE TAKER.
MANY OF THE WOULD-BE HOSTAGES
THERE HAD BEEN HIDDEN IN A
FREEZER BY A MUSLIM EMPLOYEE.
STILL, THE ATTACK HAS RAISED
ALARM IN PARIS' JEWISH
COMMUNITY.
CORDELIA LYNCH OF I.T.V.
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: AS MORNING BROKE,
FACES FILLED WITH DISBELIEF AND
SOME NERVOUS CURIOSITY.
SOME TRIED TO RETURN TO NORMAL
LIFE YARDS FROM THE BULLET HOLES
IN A SUPERMARKET THAT WILL
NEVER LOOK THE SAME.
NEITHER WILL THE LIVES OF THE
FAMILIES NOW IN MOURNING.
THE VICTIMS NAMED TODAY AS 22-
YEAR-OLD YOHAN COHEN ON THE LEFT
AND 21-YEAR-OLD YOAV HATTAB.
PHILLIPE BRAHAM, A HUSBAND AND
FATHER IN HIS 40s, ALSO DIED
ALONGSIDE FRANCOIS-MICHELE
SAADA, WHO WAS IN HIS 60s.
THERE WAS ONE MAN PASSING BY ON
HIS SCOOTER RIGHT HERE WHO SAW
THE MOMENT THE SIEGE BEGAN,
BEFORE ANYONE ELSE WAS HERE.
HE SPOKE TO THE MANAGER AT THE
KOSHER SHOP, RUNNING OUT, CRYING
FOR HELP AND HIS ARMS BLOODIED.
AND HERE YOU CAN SEE WHAT LOOKS
LIKE HIS BLOOD.
AMAZINGLY, HE SURVIVED.
YOHAN SITBON, WHO SAW HIM
STRUGGLE, QUICKLY POSTED A
MESSAGE ON FACEBOOK WARNING
PEOPLE TO STAY AWAY FROM THE
AREA.
WHAT DID YOU SEE?
>> (translated): I ARRIVED AT
PORTE DE VINCENNES AND SAW A MAN
WHO I COULD TELL WAS JEWISH,
WITH HIS ARM COMPLETELY MESSED
UP.
HE WAS BLEEDING EVERYWHERE.
I ASKED HIM WHAT HAPPENED.
HE SAID HE'D BEEN HIT BY A
BULLET FROM A KALASHNIKOV.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT DID THE
MAN SAY?
>> (translated): HE SAID HIS
EMPLOYEES AND EVERYONE INSIDE
WOULD BE KILLED.
HE SAID HE'D BEEN HIT AND WIFE
WAS INSIDE.
>> Reporter: HE TELLS ME FRANCE
IS OVER AND HE WANTS TO LEAVE.
NEARBY, THE NEXT GENERATION
ARE GREETED BY ARMED POLICE AT
THE SYNAGOGUE, BUT MANY SAY
JEWISH PEOPLE HAVE BEEN LEFT TO
FEND FOR THEMSELVES FOR FAR TOO
LONG.
DO YOU FEEL PROTECTED ENOUGH?
>> (translated): NO, NOT AT
ALL.
I DON'T FEEL SAFE IN ANY WAY,
NOT AT ALL.
IT'S NOT ABOUT ME, BUT I HAVE
CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN.
I'M WORRIED FOR THEIR FUTURE.
IT'S TERRIFYING.
>> Reporter: ISRAEL RECEIVES
MORE IMMIGRANTS FROM FRANCE THAN
ANY OTHER COUNTRY.
AND HERE IN PARIS, THIS MINORITY
COMMUNITY IS GROWING EVER MORE
NERVOUS, UNSURE OF ITS PLACE IN
THE COUNTRY.
>> (translated): YESTERDAY,
THE POLICE ASKED ME TO CLOSE MY
SHOP EARLY BECAUSE OF WHAT WAS
HAPPENING.
I DIDN'T WANT TO BECAUSE I STILL
HAD CLIENTS COMING.
>> Reporter: IT IS A COMMUNITY
THAT FEELS THAT IT'S BEEN FORCED
TO COWER BEHIND CLOSED DOORS IN
A COUNTRY WHERE IT DOESN'T
BELONG.
CORDELIA LYNCH, CHANNEL 4 NEWS,
PARIS.
>> Sreenivasan: SEE WHY MORE AND
MORE JEWS ARE LEAVING FRANCE FOR
ISRAEL.
VISIT newshour.pbs.org.
>> Sreenivasan: A 19-YEAR-OLD
FROM THE CHICAGO AREA HAS BEEN
INDICTED ON A TERROR CHARGE.
THE GOVERNMENT ALLEGES THAT
MOHAMMED HAMZAH KHAN TRIED TO
TRAVEL OVERSEAS TO FIGHT FOR THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
KHAN WAS ARRESTED AT O'HARE
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT IN OCTOBER
WHILE TRYING TO BOARD A FLIGHT
TO TURKEY.
KHAN'S LAWYER CALLS THE
INDICTMENT ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY
"POLITICALLY MOTIVATED" AND AN
EFFORT TO JUSTIFY WHAT HE
DESCRIBED AS "THE HYSTERIA OVER
ISIS."
THE HACKER GROUP KNOWN AS
ANONYMOUS SAYS IT INTENDS TO DO
ALL IT CAN TO SHUT DOWN WEB
SITES AND SOCIAL MEDIA ACCOUNTS
LINKED TO TERROR GROUPS.
THE ORGANIZATION RELEASED A
VIDEO YESTERDAY DECLARING WAR ON
TERRORISTS WHO IT SAYS VIOLATE
WHAT IT CALLS THE "SACRED RIGHT
TO EXPRESS OPINIONS IN ANY WAY."
IN THE PAST, THE GROUP HAS MADE
HEADLINES BY LAUNCHING
CYBERATTACKS AGAINST GOVERNMENT
AND CORPORATE WEB SITES.
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS REPORTEDLY
HAVE RECOMMENDED THAT FELONY
CHARGES BE BROUGHT AGAINST
RETIRED FOUR-STAR GENERAL DAVID
PETRAEUS.
PETRAEUS IS SAID TO HAVE SHARED
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION WITH HIS
LOVER WHILE HE WAS THE DIRECTOR
OF THE C.I.A.
HE HAS DENIED THE ALLEGATION.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER HAD
BEEN EXPECTED TO DECIDE BY THE
END OF 2014 WHETHER TO TRY AND
SEEK AN INDICTMENT.
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, WHO, IN 2013,
WAS ACQUITTED IN THE SHOOTING
DEATH OF TRAYVON MARTIN, IS IN
TROUBLE WITH THE LAW AGAIN.
HE WAS ARRESTED LAST NIGHT FOR
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT IN CONNECTION
WITH A DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
INCIDENT.
DURING A COURT APPEARANCE THIS
MORNING, BOND WAS SET AT $5,000.
ZIMMERMAN WAS ALSO ORDERED TO
STAY AWAY FROM THE WOMAN
INVOLVED.
HE REPORTEDLY WAS INVOLVED IN
TWO SIMILAR INCIDENTS IN 2013,
BUT NO FORMAL CHARGES WERE EVER
BROUGHT.
A JUDGE IN SANTA BARBARA,
CALIFORNIA, HAS ADMITTED INTO
EVIDENCE INTERNAL FILES FROM THE
BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA
DOCUMENTING SEXUAL ABUSE
ALLEGATIONS WITHIN THE
ORGANIZATION, WHICH MEANS THEY
COULD BECOME PUBLIC.
THE JUDGE IS PRESIDING OVER A
LAWSUIT BROUGHT BY A MAN WHO
ALLEGES HE WAS MOLESTED SEXUALLY
WHEN HE WAS A 13-YEAR-OLD SCOUT.
INTERNAL BOY SCOUT FILES
PREVIOUSLY MADE PUBLIC SHOWED
THAT THE ORGANIZATION FAILED TO
REPORT A THIRD OF ALL ABUSE
ALLEGATIONS TO POLICE.
THE PROPOSED TAKEOVER OF FAMILY
DOLLAR STORES BY RIVAL
DISCOUNTERS IS RUNNING INTO
OPPOSITION.
ATTORNEYS GENERAL FROM 20 STATES
HAVE JOINED A FEDERAL ANTITRUST
INVESTIGATION INTO THE POSSIBLE
BUYOUT OF FAMILY DOLLAR BY
DOLLAR GENERAL AND DOLLAR TREE.
THE ATTORNEYS GENERAL HAVE
EXPRESSED CONCERNS THAT THE
PROPOSED DEAL COULD RESULT IN
HIGHER PRICES FOR SHOPPERS, MANY
OF WHOM ARE POOR.
THE PERCENTAGE OF AMERICANS
WORKING AS GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
IS NOW AT ITS LOWEST LEVEL SINCE
1960, BACK WHEN DWIGHT
EISENHOWER WAS PRESIDENT.
THIS ACCORDING TO THE MOST
RECENT JOBS REPORT RELEASED
YESTERDAY.
EVEN THOUGH THE NUMBER OF
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES IS UP OVER
THE YEARS, GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT
AS A PERCENTAGE OF ALL WORKERS
PEAKED IN THE MID-1970s.
BACK THEN, IT WAS JUST SHORT OF
20%; IT'S NOW 15.6%.
TURNING OVERSEAS NOW, PROGRESS
IS REPORTED IN THE INVESTIGATION
INTO THE CRASH OF THAT AIRASIA
JETLINER THAT WENT DOWN WITH 162
ON BOARD TWO WEEKS AGO.
SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAMS RAISED
THE TAIL OF THE AIRBUS FROM THE
FLOOR OF THE JAVA SEA.
IT HAD BEEN IN WATERS ABOUT 100
FEET DEEP.
HOWEVER, THE SO-CALLED "BLACK
BOXES," THE PLANE'S FLIGHT DATA
RECORDERS, STILL HAVE NOT BEEN
RECOVERED.
PINGS FROM THEM WERE DETECTED IN
THE VICINITY OF THE TAIL
YESTERDAY.
NORTH KOREA OFFERED TODAY TO
TEMPORARILY SUSPEND NUCLEAR
TESTING IF THE U.S. AND SOUTH
KOREA AGREE TO SCRAP JOINT
MILITARY EXERCISES LATER THIS
YEAR.
NORTH KOREA HAS CONDUCTED THREE
NUCLEAR TESTS IN THE PAST
DECADE, THE LATEST IN 2013.
THE U.S. RESPONDED, SAYING
LINKING ITS MILITARY DRILLS TO A
POSSIBLE NUCLEAR TEST WAS "AN
IMPLICIT THREAT" BUT SAID IT IS
OPEN TO A DIALOGUE WITH NORTH
KOREA.
AND SPACE X, THE PRIVATE SPACE
EXPLORATION COMPANY FOUNDED BY
BILLIONAIRE ELON MUSK,
SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHED ANOTHER
UNMANNED "FALCON 9" ROCKET FROM
CAPE CANAVERAL, FLORIDA, THIS
MORNING.
A CAPSULE WILL DELIVER SUPPLIES
TO SIX ASTRONAUTS ABOARD THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION.
BUT THE FIRM'S REVOLUTIONARY
ATTEMPT TO LAND A BOOSTER ROCKET
ON AN OCEAN BARGE OFF FLORIDA
CAME UP JUST SHORT.
IT ACTUALLY HIT THE TARGET, BUT
TOO HARD AND BROKE APART.
A TWEET FROM ELON MUSK AFTER THE
FAILED LANDING READ, "CLOSE, BUT
NO CIGAR THIS TIME."
>> Sreenivasan: WE WANT TO GO
MUCH MORE DEEPLY NOW INTO THE
EXTENT OF THE TERROR THREAT
OVERSEAS AND EXAMINE WHAT
DANGERS IT POSES HERE IN THE
UNITED STATES.
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE ARE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON BY
JOHN McLAUGHLIN.
HE WAS THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FOR NEARLY FOUR YEARS.
SO, AS WE CONTINUE TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT HOW THIS ATTACK UNFOLDED,
THE KIND OF TRAINING THESE
INDIVIDUALS HAD, WHAT SHOULD THE
U.S. BE CONCERNED ABOUT?
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT WE HAVE
HERE THAT SHOULD CONCERN US IS
THAT THERE ARE A LARGER NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN THE EXTREMIST
MOVEMENT NOW WITH WESTERN
PASSPORTS THAN AT ANY TIME IN
HISTORY.
LOOK AT JUST EUROPE ALONE--
THERE ARE MORE THAN 1,200
FRENCHMEN THERE, SOMETHING LIKE
500 GERMANS, 300 OR 400 FROM THE
U.K., AND THAT'S THE TIP OF THE
ICEBERG.
AND WE DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
AMERICANS-- PERHAPS 100 TO 200
AMERICANS ARE THE FIGURES I'VE
SEEN-- SOMEHOW INVOLVED WITH THE
JIHAD IN SYRIA AND IRAQ.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS THAT THERE IS
AN UNPRECEDENTED POTENTIAL FOR
MOVEMENT TOWARD THE UNITED
STATES AND, OF COURSE, INTO
EUROPE AS WELL BY PASSPORT
HOLDERS WHO CAN MOVE FREELY
AMONG THE 27 COUNTRIES OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION, AND, AS EUROPEAN
UNION MEMBERS, IN MOST CASES BE
ABLE TO COME TO THE UNITED
STATES WITHOUT A VISA.
SO, THAT IMPOSES ON THE UNITED
STATES AND OUR INTELLIGENCE
SERVICES, OUR BORDER CONTROLS
AND SO FORTH, A VERY HIGH
STANDARD FOR DETECTING MOVEMENT
INTO AND OUT OF THIS COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: ISN'T THERE...
>> I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
>> Sreenivasan: WOULDN'T THE
UNITED STATES KNOW WHO SOME OF
THESE PEOPLE ARE AND BE ABLE TO
SORT OF CROSS-CHECK AGAINST A
COUPLE OF LISTS SAYING, OKAY,
THIS IS A GERMAN PASSPORT HOLDER
BUT HE'S BEEN IN AN AREA IN
YEMEN THAT IS KNOWN TO HAVE
TERRORIST TRAINING CAMPS?
>> YES, WE'RE PRETTY GOOD AT
THAT.
THE THING I WOULD SAY, THOUGH,
IS THAT WE ARE DEALING HERE WITH
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
NOW, THAT SAID, I THINK WE HAVE
PROBABLY THE BEST... WHAT'S
CALLED A WATCH LISTING SYSTEM IN
THE WORLD.
THAT IS TO SAY, WHO IS NOT
AUTHORIZED TO GET ON AIRPLANES,
WHO SHOULD WE BE CONCERNED ABOUT
IF NOT TO PREVENT THEM FROM
GETTING ON PLANES, TO PULL THEM
OUT OF LINE IF WE KNOW THEY'RE
THERE AND DO SOME SECONDARY
QUESTIONING FOR THEM.
WE SPENT SO MUCH TIME ON THAT
SINCE 9/11 THAT WE HAVE A VERY
FINELY-TUNED SYSTEM FOR THAT.
AS YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED NOW, A
COUPLE OF THESE INDIVIDUALS IN
FRANCE WERE ON OUR NO-FLY LIST.
SO, HAD THEY GOTTEN ON AN
AIRPLANE AND COME TO THE UNITED
STATES, IN MANY CASES NOW, WE
HAVE ARRANGEMENTS WITH AIRPORTS
OVERSEAS TO HAVE THE MANIFESTS
OF PLANES TRAVELING HERE.
SOMEONE WOULD HAVE PICKED THEM
OUT FROM THOSE MANIFESTS AS
PEOPLE THAT WE NEEDED TO CATCH
AT THE AIRPORT FOR FURTHER
QUESTIONING.
SO, WE'RE PRETTY GOOD AT THAT,
BUT THE CAVEAT I WOULD SAY IS,
WE'RE TALKING HERE ABOUT AN
ENORMOUS VOLUME OF PEOPLE IN A
FIELD OF INTELLIGENCE... RATHER,
COUNTERTERRORISM, THAT IS, IN
MY EXPERIENCE, THE MOST LABOR
INTENSIVE PART OF INTELLIGENCE.
IT'S NOT LIKE ESTIMATING A
LARGE CONVENTIONAL MILITARY
FORCE.
THE BIG CHANGE HERE THAT I WOULD
SAY SINCE, SAY, THE COLD WAR IS,
BACK THEN WE HAD TO LOOK FOR
VERY BIG THINGS IN THE WORLD--
BOMBERS, SUBMARINES, WHOLE ARMY
GROUPS.
NOW, WE HAVE TO LOOK FOR VERY
SMALL THINGS-- A SINGLE PERSON,
A BOMB IN A SUITCASE, LIQUID
ON A PLANE.
THE REQUIREMENTS ARE MUCH HIGHER
AND THE POTENTIAL FOR SOMEONE
SLIPPING THROUGH IS VERY HIGH.
AND WE'VE HAD SOME INCIDENTS OF
THIS IN OUR COUNTRY, THE
ATTEMPTED BOMBING OF NEW YORK...
TIMES SQUARE IN NEW YORK AND SO
FORTH.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, WHAT SORTS
OF RESOURCES ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT?
IS THE UNITED STATES EQUIPPED TO
TRY TO MAKE THAT NET AS TIGHT AS
POSSIBLE?
>> WELL, WE ARE, BUT, AGAIN, I
HAVE TO SAY I EXPECT SOMEONE
TO GET THROUGH HERE.
I THINK WE'RE NOW IN AN ERA
WHERE THE NEW NORMAL IS THIS
KIND OF ATTACK, AND MOST
INTELLIGENCE SPECIALISTS WILL
TELL YOU TO EXPECT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS TO HAPPEN IN THE
UNITED STATES AT SOME POINT.
BUT WHAT DO WE DO TO STOP THAT,
TO MINIMIZE THE CHANCES?
WELL, THE FIRST REQUIREMENT I
THINK OUT OF THE EVENTS IN PARIS
IS FOR MUCH CLOSER... WE ALREADY
HAVE CLOSE CONSULTATION WITH
THESE INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, BUT
FOR MUCH CLOSER AND TIGHTER
SHARING OF INFORMATION AMONG
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES ABOUT
EVERYTHING.
>> Sreenivasan: ISN'T THAT
ALREADY HAPPENING?
>> YES, IT'S ALREADY HAPPENING,
BUT YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO LOOK AT
IT IN THE AFTERMATH OF SOMETHING
LIKE THIS.
I DID A STUDY FOR THE DIRECTOR
OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE AFTER
THE FAILED CHRISTMAS BOMBER IN
2009 AND 2010, AND, OF COURSE,
BY THEN, OUR CONSULTATION WITH
OTHER SERVICES WAS DRAMATICALLY
BETTER THAN IT WAS AT THE TIME
OF 9/11, BUT THERE WERE STILL
SOME BARRIERS THAT WE
RECOMMENDED BE REMOVED.
I SUSPECT THERE ARE STILL SOME
SEAMS, WHAT I CALL THEM AS
SEAMS.
THAT IS WHERE ONE SET OF
AUTHORITIES BUMPS UP AGAINST
ANOTHER SET OF AUTHORITIES.
THE SIMPLEST EXAMPLE IS IN THE
UNITED STATES, WHERE THE C.I.A.
IS NOT PERMITTED TO OPERATE
WITHIN THE UNITED STATES
LEGALLY.
THE F.B.I. IS.
THAT'S A SEAM, SO WE'VE WORKED
VERY HARD TO BUILD BRIDGES
ACROSS THAT SEAM QUITE
SUCCESSFULLY.
SO, YOU HAVE EQUIVALENT SEAMS
THAT EXIST AMONG FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES.
SAY AN INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE IN EUROPE GETS
INFORMATION FROM ANOTHER SERVICE
IN EUROPE, CAN THAT SERVICE THEN
GIVE THAT INFORMATION FROM A
SECOND SERVICE TO US?
OR DO THEY FIRST HAVE TO GO BACK
AND ASK THE SERVICE FROM WHICH
THEY GOT IT?
THOSE ARE THE KIND OF SEAMS THAT
WE OUGHT TO ATTACK NOW.
WE'RE VERY GOOD AT THIS, BUT I
THINK IN THE AFTERMATH OF
SOMETHING LIKE THIS YOU ALWAYS
TAKE ANOTHER LOOK AND SAY WHAT
HAPPENED HERE THAT WE CAN
IMPROVE?
AND I'M SURE WE ARE GOING TO DO
THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SO
THE HEAD OF THE MI5 RECENTLY
SAID THAT HE'S CONCERNED WITH
THE INCREASING LEVEL OF THREAT
AND THE DECREASING AMOUNT OF
CAPABILITY OR CAPACITY HE HAS
TO DEAL WITH THOSE THREATS.
IT'S GOT TO BE SOMEWHAT SIMILAR
IN THE U.S., AS WELL.
BUT THAT SORT OF "INTEL SPEAK,"
BREAK THAT DOWN FOR A U.S.
AUDIENCE MEMBER.
HOW IS IT THAT THEY SEE THESE
THREATS AND THEY CAN'T SEEM TO
FIGHT THEM OR KEEP UP?
>> IT'S A SIMPLE MATTER OF
VOLUME.
THE VOLUME OF THREAT HAS GONE UP
DRAMATICALLY IN THE LAST FOUR
YEARS, FIVE YEARS, IN PART FOR A
WHOLE VARIETY OF COMPLEX
REASONS.
TERRORISTS NOW HAVE THE LARGEST
SAFE HAVEN THAT THEY'VE HAD IN
OVER A DECADE WHEN YOU LOOK AT
THE AREA IN THE... ESSENTIALLY
THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AND THE LARGE UNGOVERNED SPACES.
SO, MANY THINGS ARE BEHIND IT,
BUT THE VOLUME OF PEOPLE
PARTICIPATING IN JIHADIST
OPERATIONS IS MUCH GREATER.
SO, IN ORDER TO SURVEIL
SOMEONE-- AND MANY COMMENTATORS
HAVE MADE THIS POINT IN RECENT
DAYS-- IT TAKES ANYWHERE BETWEEN
A DOZEN AND 30 PEOPLE TO DO
24-HOUR SURVEILLANCE ON AN
INDIVIDUAL SO THAT THEY DON'T
DETECT SOMEONE SURVEILLING THEM.
SO, IT'S A SIMPLE MATTER OF
VOLUME, AND YOU HAVE SO MANY...
ONLY SO MANY INTELLIGENCE
OFFICERS.
I WOULD SAY WHEN YOU COMPARE THE
NUMBERS OF INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS
TO THE NUMBERS OF JIHADISTS FOR
A COUNTRY LIKE BRITAIN, THEY ARE
FAR OUT NUMBERED.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT.
>> I MEAN, THEY HAVE MAYBE 500
CASES THAT THEY ARE WORKING AT
ANY GIVEN TIME AT A VERY FINE
LEVEL OF DETAIL.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, JOHN
McLAUGHLIN, FORMER DIRECTOR OF
THE C.I.A., THANKS FOR JOINING
US.
>> YOU BET.
>> Sreenivasan: WE WANT TO
RETURN NOW TO PARIS TO GET A
BETTER SENSE OF THE MOOD THERE
IN THE AFTERMATH OF THIS WEEK'S
TERROR ATTACKS.
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT, WE ARE
JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE BY RACHEL
DONADIO OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES."
SO, WHAT IS THE MOOD THERE ON
THE STREETS OF PARIS?
>> WELL, I WILL SAY IT'S PRETTY
QUIET.
I WALKED THIS MORNING THROUGH
THE MARAIS, AN AREA THAT HAS A
LARGE JEWISH POPULATION BUT ALSO
A LOT OF SHOPS THAT ARE NORMALLY
EXTREMELY CROWDED ON WEEKENDS,
AND IT WAS VERY EMPTY.
IT WAS A LITTLE BIT EERIE,
FRANKLY.
THERE WERE PEOPLE SITTING IN
CAFES READING THE NEWSPAPER,
TRYING TO TAKE STOCK OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
COLLEAGUES OF MINE WHO'VE
BEEN OUT TO VINCENNES, WHICH IS
WHERE THE SUPERMARKET, THE
KOSHER SUPERMARKET HAD HOSTAGES
TAKEN YESTERDAY, SAY THAT THE
FEELING THERE IS EVEN WORSE.
THERE'S JUST THIS SENSE OF
SIEGE, REALLY, AND THIS FEELING
THAT PEOPLE DON'T FEEL AT EASE.
I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY, THERE'S THIS
SENSE THAT THERE ARE THESE
KILLERS WHO COULD COME AT ANY
TIME, AND IT PUTS PEOPLE REALLY
VERY MUCH ON EDGE.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU ARE ALSO
SEEING MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF
SOLIDARITY.
THERE'S HUGE RALLY ORGANIZED
TOMORROW.
THERE'LL BE A HUGE RALLY WITH
HEADS OF STATE FROM ACROSS
EUROPE, PEOPLE COMING OUT AND
EXPRESSING SOLIDARITY IN FAVOR
OF DEMOCRACY, FREE SPEECH, ALL
OF THESE VALUES THAT THESE
RADICAL KILLERS WERE OPPOSED TO.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE A SENSE
OF ANXIETY THAT THERE COULD BE
MORE ATTACKS...
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Sreenivasan: ...THAT THERE'S
A GREAT DEAL OF UNKNOWN, AND
"HOW DID THESE GUYS GET THROUGH
THE SECURITY SYSTEM?"
>> YES, ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN, THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO
CLEARLY HAD A LOT OF TRAINING,
IT SEEMS.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" HAS BEEN
REPORTING THAT THEY WERE
PROBABLY WERE TRAINED IN YEMEN.
I MEAN, THEY'VE BEEN RADICALIZED
AND HAVE GOOD TRAINING.
AND YOU NEVER KNOW.
I MEAN, THE FRENCH SECURITY
APPARATUS CAN'T MONITOR
EVERYBODY IN SIGHT.
THERE'S A BIG DEBATE ABOUT
THE LIMITS SURVEILLANCE, THE
LIMITS OF DEMOCRACY, BUT THERE
REALLY IS THIS SENSE OF WHO
KNOWS WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN
NEXT.
IT'S TREMENDOUSLY ANXIOUS-
MAKING.
PEOPLE ARE TALKING TO THEIR KIDS
ABOUT THIS, TRYING TO EXPLAIN
THEIR OWN ANXIETIES.
THE KIDS WHO WERE IN SCHOOL WHEN
THIS ALL HAPPENED, WHEN THE
SHOOTING HAPPENED, WHETHER
TEACHERS SHOULD EXPLAIN IT TO
THEM.
I MEAN, EVERYONE IS VERY, VERY
ANXIOUS.
IT'S A FEELING THAT THIS IS
MAYBE THE BEGINNING OF
SOMETHING.
>> Sreenivasan: EARLIER, YOU HAD
ALSO WRITTEN ABOUT THAT THERE IS
ALREADY THIS CONVERSATION
HAPPENING ABOUT THE PLACE OF
IMMIGRANTS IN SOCIETY AND WHAT
THEIR ROLE IS AND HOW FRANCE IS
REALLY CHANGING OVER TIME.
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
IT'S A SENSE WHERE MANY PEOPLE
DO NOT FEEL AT HOME IN FRANCE.
OBVIOUSLY, THE JEWS WHO WERE
TARGETED IN THE SUPERMARKET
YESTERDAY, THEY DO NOT FEEL VERY
MUCH AT HOME.
MAYBE SOME OF THESE MUSLIM GUYS
WHO GREW UP IN FRANCE, HAVE
FRENCH PASSPORTS, WENT TO
STUDY JIHAD, THEY PROBABLY DON'T
FEEL VERY MUCH AT HOME IN
FRANCE.
AND THEN, A LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE
WHO LIVE IN FRANCE DON'T ALWAYS
FEEL AT HOME IN FRANCE.
THERE'S THIS SENSE THAT PEOPLE
DON'T FEEL AT HOME AT HOME,
WHETHER THAT MEANS YOU'RE
JEWISH, MUSLIM OR TRYING TO COME
TO TERMS WITH THESE LARGER
DEBATES.
I MEAN, YOU DON'T KNOW WHETHER
IT'S KIND OF A CLASH OF
CIVILIZATIONS, WHETHER IT'S JUST
INDIVIDUALS WHO GO AND DO CRAZY
THINGS, AND IT CAUSES A PROFOUND
AMOUNT OF ANXIETY HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
RACHEL DONADIO OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES," THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW, A
PREVIEW OF A DOCUMENTARY FROM
"INDEPENDENT LENS" AIRING MONDAY
NIGHT ON MANY PBS STATIONS.
IT'S CALLED "EVOLUTION OF A
CRIMINAL."
IN IT, FILMMAKER DARIUS CLARK
MONROE LOOKS BACK AT THE EVENTS
LEADING UP TO HIS OWN DECISION
TO ROB A BANK.
IN THIS EXCERPT, HE TALKS TO HIS
MOTHER ABOUT IT.
>> I WOULD ASK MY PARENTS ALL
THE TIME ABOUT THE FINANCIAL
SITUATION.
IT'S BECAUSE I WOULD OVERHEAR
IT, OVERHEAR CONVERSATIONS,
ARGUMENTS ABOUT IT, SO I WOULD
JUST ASK.
>> THE PROBLEMS THAT WE HAD
GOING ON IN OUR HOME, EVEN
THOUGH YOU ARE AS
INTELLIGENT AS YOU ARE, MAYBE I
SHOULD NOT HAVE TALKED TO YOU
ABOUT IT BECAUSE I DIDN'T
REALIZE HOW IT WAS AFFECTING
YOU.
>> ONCE I BEGAN TO REALIZE THE
EXTENT OF FINANCIAL PROBLEMS, I
WENT FROM BEING A CAREFREE AND
JOYOUS CHILD TO BECOMING ACUTELY
AWARE OF THE FACT THAT THE WORLD
IS NOT AS I SAW IT AND THE
BURDENS THAT MY PARENTS HAD WERE
SLOWLY TRICKLING DOWN TO ME.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY TIMES I
WISHED... LIKE, MY WISH THAT
MONEY WAS NOT AN ISSUE.
AND SHE WASN'T TELLING ME, "YOU
NEED TO SAVE ME, YOU NEED TO
RESCUE ME," BUT IT'S LIKE NO ONE
WAS RESCUING ANYONE.
>> YOU TOOK THE BURDEN TO THINK
THAT, "OKAY, WELL, I NEED TO
HELP MY MOM, AND I NEED TO HELP
MY MOM.
I WANT TO TAKE CARE OF MY MOM.
I'M SICK OF HER HAVING THIS
BURDEN ON HER TO TAKE CARE OF
THIS FAMILY."
BUT AT THE TIME, I DIDN'T
REALIZE THAT IT AFFECTED YOU IN
THAT WAY.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
MORE THAN 7,000 NIGERIANS
REPORTEDLY HAVE FLED THAT
COUNTRY DURING THE PAST TEN DAYS
TO ESCAPE ATTACKS BY BOKO HARAM
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS.
THIS, ACCORDING TO THE UNITED
NATIONS REFUGEE AGENCY.
IN NIGERIA TODAY, AT LEAST 16
PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN A SUICIDE
BOMBING.
THE BOMBER WAS IDENTIFIED AS A
GIRL SAID TO BE ABOUT TEN YEARS
OLD.
THAT'S ALL FOR TONIGHT.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
SEE YOU BACK HERE TOMORROW.